Procurement - this is where hardware is purchased for an employee
Deployment - this is where hardware is set up so that the employee can do their job.
Maintenance - this is the stage where software is updated and hardware issues are fixed, if and when they occur
Retirement - in this final stage, hardware becomes unusable or no longer needed. 
		And it needs to be properly removed from the fleet

 In a small organization, a typical hardware life cycle might go something like this. 
First, a new employee is hired by the company, human resources tells you to provision
 a computer for them and set up their user account. Next, you allocate a computer you
 have from your inventory or you order a new one if you need it. When you allocate 
hardware, you may need to tag the machine with a sticker so that you can keep track of
 which inventory belongs, to the organization. Next, you image the computer with the 
base image, next, you name the computer with the standardized host name. This helps 
with managing machines, in regards to the name itself, we talked about using a format 
such as user name, dash location, but other hosting status can be used. After that, 
you install software, the user needs on their machine. Then, the new employee starts 
and you streamline the setup process for them by providing instructions on how to log 
into their new machine, get email etc. Eventually, if the computer sees a hardware 
issue of failure, you look into it, and think through the next steps. If it's getting
 too old, you have to figure out where to recycle it and where to get new hardware. 
Finally, if a user leaves the company, you'll also have to remove their access from IT
 resources and wipe the machine. So that you can eventually reallocate it to someone 
else. Installing software and configuring settings on a new computer can get a little 
time-consuming. In a small company, you don't do it often enough where it makes much 
of a difference. But in a larger company, a time-consuming process just won't cut it, 
you have to learn automated ways to provision new machines, so that you only spend 
minutes on this and not hours.

procurement and maintenance of hardware
setting up business account with vendors like HP, Dell Apple Microsoft

1. What steps did you take to get to this point ?
2. What's the unexpected (bad) result ?
3. What's the exxpected result ?

New terms and their definitions: Course 4 Module 1
Cloud computing: The concept and technological approach of accessing data, using applications, storing files, etc. from anywhere in the world as long as you have an internet connection

Data center: A facility that stores hundreds, if not thousands of servers

Deployment: Hardware is set up so that the employee can do their job

IT Infrastructure: The software, the hardware, network, and services required for an organization to operate in an enterprise IT environment

KVM Switch: Keyboard, video, & mouse switch that looks like a hub that you can connect multiple computers to and control using one keyboard, mouse, and monitor

Maintenance: Where software is updated and hardware issues are fixed if, and when, they occur

Procurement: Hardware is purchased or reused for an employee

Production: The parts of the infrastructure where certain services are executed and serve to its users production

Reproduction case: Recreating an error to test a solution to make sure the problem is gone after a fix has been applied

Retirement: Hardware becomes unusable or no longer needed, and it needs to be properly removed from the fleet

Rollback: Reverting to the previous state before you made changes

Secondary or stand-by machine: A machine that is the same as a production machine, but won't receive any traffic from actual users until enabled

Server: Software or a machine that provides services to other software or machines

System Administration: The field in IT that is responsible for maintaining reliable computer systems, in a Multi-user environment

Test environment: A virtual machine running the same configuration as a production environment, but isn't actually serving any users of the service


