Security Infrastructure Design Document for Times Inc

Authentication system
May employ a well-administered system using Active Directory or OpenLDAP as a directory service.
Under this, we implement a multifactor authentication system using Biometrics, security tokens, or OTP in conjunction with passwords
The password should also meet a criteria for security


External website security
For a well-secured website, we employ certification from trusted certificate authorities thus using HTTPS standard


Internal website security
internal website can also be secured over SSL/TSL protocol by using the HTTPS standard
Remote access solution
To deploy remote access, security is essential. One best solutions is to use a VPN. 
Virtual Private Networks, VPNs are used to provide secure remote access and link two networks securely

Firewall and basic rules recommendations
Firewalls are critical to securing a network. They can be deployed as dedicated 
network infrastructure devices which regulate the flow of traffic for a whole 
network, either Host-based, Network-based, or both which is safer.
A recommended basic rule in using a firewall is to use the whitelist approach instead 
of the blacklist approach.
That is first to set an all-access deny rule and then allow only ports to be used.
Set rules to guide traffic only to selected services such as the network and VPN server


Wireless security
WPA2 Enterprise used with TLS certificates for authentication is one of the best 
solutions available. WPA2 Enterprise would offer the highest level of security for 
a Wi-Fi network. It offers the best encryption options for protecting data from eavesdropping 
third parties. Other security options include EAP-TLS

VLAN configuration recommendations
VLAN can also be deployed to isolate and segregate groups on a network. Like administration, infrastructure, and accounting VLAN.
These are subnets under a network structure. This helps isolate groups and builds restricted access. We can also have something
like a guest VLAN that connects other devices outside the company such as third-party services
This gives you more flexibility to enforce security on VPN clients. It also lets you build additional layers of defenses.

Laptop security configuration
For a network handling sensitive data, endpoints, or terminals such as laptops on a network need a form of security against intrusion when in use or lost.
A laptop device should have the following:
	1. A full disk encryption to protect the disk from unauthorized access to data when a device is lost
	2. Laptops should be password-protected to prevent unauthorized access
	3. Laptops should not be left unlocked when not in use
	4. Use Antivirus software protection against malware attacks. Binary whitelisting software can be used as well.

Application policy recommendations
To improve upon security, we could use application policies to reduce our attack surface
A good recommendation or a requirement is to only support or require the latest version 
of a piece of software.
If there's a common use case for a certain type of software, it would be helpful to select a 
specific software implementation
Policies should also be defined for browser extensions and add-ons


Security and privacy policy recommendations

Privacy policies oversee the access and use of sensitive data.
We can apply the principle of least privilege here using logging and monitoring systems. 
By not allowing access to this type of data by default, you should require anyone 
who needs access to first make an access request with a justification for 
getting the data. But it can't be vague or a generic request for access. 
They should be required to specify what data they need access to. Requests must be reviewed
and approved before access is granted. Only after review and approval will an 
individual be granted access to the specific user data requested. 
Usually, this type of request should also have a time limit on access.
 
With security, one of the best policies is to have an occasional mandatory 
security training course. Training with videos, quizzes, in-person, etc. 
This should cover topics, such as phishing emails, password best practices, and more.
Another policy would be to ensure strong and secure passwords are used. 
The company should set criteria for passwords such as a minimum length of 8 characters,
should include Upper- and lower-case characters, symbols, and numbers. And also enforce
the habit of changing passwords frequently maybe every 3-4 months



Intrusion detection or prevention for systems containing customer data
IDS or IPS systems operate by monitoring network traffic and analyzing it for 
matching behavior or characteristics that would indicate malicious traffic.
One potential choice would be to deploy NIDS and HIPS. 
In the case of a network intrusion detection system or NIDS, the detection 
system would be deployed somewhere on a network where it can monitor traffic for 
a network segment or subnet.
A Host-based Intrusion Prevention System because for an IPS device to 
block traffic from a detected threat, it must be placed in line with the 
traffic being monitored. This means that the traffic that's being monitored must 
pass through the IPS device. If not, the IPS host couldn't act on suspected traffic.

Thank you for your submission!

A great submission should include:

Two authentication system requirements, like Security Key-based multifactor or OTP-based multifactor, and some kind of centralized authentication system (e.g., LDAP or Active Directory).

A description of HTTPS.

Recommendation for both a VPN service and a reverse proxy solution.

A description of two or more types of firewall services (e.g., implicit deny rule, remote access, websites).

Requirement for 802.1X. 

A description of four VLAN requirements, including Engineering VLAN, Sales VLAN, Infrastructure VLAN, and Guest VLAN.

Three laptop security requirements, including FDE recommendations, antivirus recommendation, and a binary whitelisting recommendation.

Requirement for a software update requirement policy and a requirement for restrictions on the types of applications permitted.

Recommendations for rules protecting access to user data and for rules protecting the storage of user data. 

A description of four of the following security policy recommendations: passwords requiring a minimum of 8 characters; passwords requiring special characters; requiring periodic password changes > 6 months; and some form of mandatory security training for users. 

A requirement for a NIPS/NIDS on the network for customer data and a requirement for HIPS/HIDS on systems containing customer data.              	